# Open ONI
**Open Online Newspaper Initiative (Open ONI)** is a community-maintained
project to make historic American newspapers browsable and searchable on the
web. We aim to enable individual state and library-based newspaper collections
to more easily provide these core capabilities, as well as develop new common
features and improvements.

Read ["About Open ONI" in our
wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/About-Open-ONI) for more
information about the project's origins.

## Open ONI-powered Sites
Visit sites currently powered by Open ONI:

- [Historic Oregon Newspapers](https://oregonnews.uoregon.edu/)
- [Pennsylvania Newspaper Archive](http://panewsarchive.psu.edu/)
- [Nebraska Newspapers](https://nebnewspapers.unl.edu/)

View ["Sites using Open ONI" in our
wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/Sites-Using-Open-ONI) for links
to the sites' source code.

## Install
To evaluate the software, we recommend installing from the [latest Open ONI
release](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/releases/latest), rather than
checking out the latest changes on the `master` branch.

If you're interested in more recent changes, check out the `dev` branch but be
warned that we don't expect it will always be in a working state at this point.

## Documentation
Documentation is available in the [Open ONI
wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki).

[Production install
instructions](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/tree/dev/docs) are in
progress on the `dev` branch.

## Support
Open ONI is currently not ready for general production use outside the
institutions who have been able to provide time for developer participation and
have deployed it individually. Documentation and changes to facilitate more
standardized deployment are under active development, but maintainers can only
provide a minimal amount of assistance while working on Open ONI part-time.
Developers cannot be expected to provide extensive one-on-one support.

We are glad to provide support specifically related to Open ONI, but anyone
wanting to work with Open ONI should begin with some foundational knowledge of
Linux, Docker, Apache, Python, Django, Solr, MariaDB/MySQL, and IIIF. There are
other resources and communities better suited to aid in getting started and
familiar with those technologies, so general assistance with them falls outside
the scope of what to expect Open ONI developers to provide.

We ask that bugs and feature requests be submitted to [Open ONI on
GitHub](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/issues). Please confine other
questions and conversation about Open ONI development and use to [Open ONI's
Slack](http://bit.ly/openoni-slack-signup). These guidelines are intended both
to keep conversation in the open where it may benefit all of the Open ONI
community and to protect developers' already limited time.

## Contact Us
We prefer to communicate on the [Open ONI
Slack](http://bit.ly/openoni-slack-signup), but if you have trouble or prefer
not to use Slack, email Karin Dalziel (kdalziel2 [at] unl.edu).

## Contribute
If you are interested in collaborating on the project, please read ["Contribute"
in our wiki](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/wiki/Contribute) for more
details.

## License
[Licensed](https://github.com/open-oni/open-oni/blob/master/LICENSE) under the
Apache License, Version 2.0
